Notes for 29/08/2025 dev-call (#189)
gammapy/gammapy-meetings: dev-meetings/2025/2025-08-29/README.md

Overall went fine. Validation and benchmarks scripts used for the released version were also tagged. 

The instructions for making the final full release did not contain the step where `dev/prepare-release.py` is run, and consequently some metadata for the release is incomplete.

The automatic adding of the new version to Zenodo failed, so will have to be done manually.
Bruno has done this before and back then contacted Zenodo team for this.

RT: Has someone already installed and checked that everything is okay with release?

DM confirms for mamba.

RT: All steps are now checked and we should announce the new version. 

AS: Should make sure mails are sent to VERITAS, MAGIC, HAWC, SWGO, need to find people who can send to their mailing lists. 

RT: Have to prepare text for announcement mails. After mails are sent, there should be celebrations.

### Reflections on the new release
RT: It was a long time to make this release, probably the roadmap was too ambitious.

AS: Gabriel Emery was missed for the contributor list somehow, but he is in the author list. Unclear how this happened. Is it worth to update the docs to ensure he is included?

> RT: Probably not (now ???), rebuilding the docs is complicated, as it will be fixed soon probably in any case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RT: Probably not before next bugfix as manually rebuilding the docs is complicated, as it will be fixed soon probably in any case.
```

### Introduction of AG: 

AG introduces themselves: Research on phenomenology of dark matter (theory), accretion od DM in compact objects (neutron stars, white dwarfs). Aim to understand and help on DM frontier with gammapy. 

Theoretical predictions fluxes below observed fluxes (???), 

-Theory background: 
In models, DM could be thermalized or non-thermalized. Dark sector with 1 particle, major portion of DM today is non-rel/cold. DM models provide: Velocity averaged annihilation cross-section for annihilation of DM and DM mass. The DM annihilates into standard particles, that go into pions and finally gamma rays. Different models exist (e.g. with dark sector). Possible that no annihilation at threshold is expected, missing in most codes today.

-Possible observations: Diffuse flux or smoking gun signatures in form of lines. Line signatures require good calculation of background, but models that provide line predictions are interesting. 
In non-thermal DM we can not rely on direct detection. Line sig. and diffuse photon flux give opportunity for DM frontier (???) 

> We did work which predicts neutrino line, it would be very interesting to see how to work on it from observation side. (???)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We did work which predicts neutrino line, it would be very interesting to see how to work on it from observation side. 
```

Let's organize user-call on this and contact people, who contributed on this in the past.

AS: Next user-call probably in November.

RT: Should be okay, more important, that most people related to it are around.

AG: I can take a look at open issues and try to fix them.

### Organising the development cycle
RT: Try to establish main projects that drive the timing of the release cycle.
We could discuss among all devs.
Need to think more carefully about how to set milestones for PRs and issues, there has been tendency to simply bump things to next available milestone but this means no prioritization is being done. Should start to put things into wishlist by default and only milestone things after performing a prioritization. Should go through features in next dev call to discuss. Will put most into wishlist.

MF: Congratulations to Gammapy 2.0! We will give you room to present this release in depth at October CTAO-meeting and hope some of you that worked hard on it, can be there.
Should make sure this leads to a proper release of the Science Analysis Tools, which would be a major milestone for the Science tools work package. 

> Reminds us that the SAT is supposed to serve for the science data challenge, in particular Gammapy 2.1 will be used to generate the simulation for the SDC, and so it is important to check ahead of time that all features needed for the SDC are present in Gammapy.
> Do not know how long it takes to prepare 2.1. (???) 
> Will discuss with David Green next week about list of science cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reminds us that the SAT is supposed to serve for the science data challenge, in particular Gammapy 2.1 will be used to generate the simulation for the SDC, and so it is important to check ahead of time that all features needed for the SDC are present in Gammapy. We will discuss with David Green next week about the list of science cases in order to give input for the planning of release 2.1 during the first weeks of the new development cycle.
```
